Add Partner Integration Guide to dbt Developer Blog (#4673)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/blog/2023-12-20-partner-integration-guide.md

---
title: "How to integrate with dbt"
description: "This guide will cover the ways to integrate with dbt Cloud"
slug: integrating-with-dbtcloud

authors: [amy_chen]

tags: [dbt Cloud, Integrations, APIs]
hide_table_of_contents: false

date: 2023-12-20
is_featured: false
---
## Overview

> Over the course of my 3 years running the Partner Engineering team at dbt Labs, the most common question I have been asked is “How do we integrate with dbt?”. Because those conversations often start out at the same place, I decided to create this guide so I’m no longer the blocker to fundamental information. This also allows us to skip the intro and get to the fun conversations like what a joint solution for our customers would look like so much faster. 

Reviewer: suggs:
- i've been taught to spell out numbers when it's less than 10 (except for things like memory size eg 5 MB)
- use contractions whenever possible. this is a newish style within the industry that's been adopted. it wasn't the style several years ago  
- i use this rule for questions in a sentence https://style.mla.org/direct-question-in-a-sentence/
- moving the value statement earlier in the sentence instead of at the end

```suggestion
Over the course of my three years running the Partner Engineering team at dbt Labs, the most common question I've been asked is, How do we integrate with dbt? Because those conversations often start out at the same place, I decided to create this guide so I’m no longer the blocker to fundamental information. This also allows us to skip the intro and get to the fun conversations so much faster, like what a joint solution for our customers would look like. 
```

> Now this guide does not include how to integrate with dbt Core. If you’re interested in creating an dbt Adapter, **[please check out this documentation instead.](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/dbt-ecosystem/adapter-development/1-what-are-adapters)** 

Reviewer: suggs: 
- style guide nits on capitalization and bolding
- as a best practice, we use the page name/guide name/similar instead of "documentation" or "here" when linking out. i didn't sugg "Adapter dev guide" (ie capital a) since that's not the actual guide title, which is "Build, test, document, and promote adapters"  

```suggestion
This guide doesn't include how to integrate with dbt Core. If you’re interested in creating a dbt adapter, please check out the [adapter development guide](/guides/dbt-ecosystem/adapter-development/1-what-are-adapters) instead.
```

> Instead we are going to focus on integrating with dbt Cloud. Integrating with dbt Cloud is a key requirement to become a dbt Labs technology partner, opening the door to a variety of collaborative commercial opportunities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we're going to focus on integrating with dbt Cloud. Integrating with dbt Cloud is a key requirement to become a dbt Labs technology partner, opening the door to a variety of collaborative commercial opportunities. 
```

> Here I will cover how to get started, potential use cases you want to solve for, and points of integrations to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here I'll cover how to get started, potential use cases you want to solve for, and points of integrations to do so.
```

## New to dbt Cloud?

> If you're new to dbt and dbt Cloud, we recommend you and your software developers try our [Getting Started Quickstarts](https://docs.getdbt.com/quickstarts) after reading [What is dbt?](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction). The documentation will help you familiarize yourself with how our users interact with dbt. By going through this, you will also create a sample dbt project to test your integration.

Reviewer: suggs: using our link convention when it's referring to a page on our docs site

```suggestion
If you're new to dbt and dbt Cloud, we recommend you and your software developers try our [Getting Started Quickstarts](/guides) after reading [What is dbt?](/docs/introduction). The documentation will help you familiarize yourself with how our users interact with dbt. By going through this, you will also create a sample dbt project to test your integration.
```

Author: Thank you! It's weird because I did do this and then it showed all of my links as broken on vercel

> If you require a partner dbt Cloud account to test on, we can upgrade an existing account or a trial account. **This account may only be used for development, training, and demonstration purposes.** Please speak to your partner manager if you're interested and provide the account id (provided in the URL). Our partner account has all of the enterprise level functionality and can be provided with a signed partnerships agreement.

Reviewer: suggs:
- per style guide, bold shouldn't be used for emphasis. we use other markup like italics, callouts, etc for that
- "contact" (vs speak) is a more inclusive term for less-abled bodies   

```suggestion
If you require a partner dbt Cloud account to test on, we can upgrade an existing account or a trial account. This account may only be used for development, training, and demonstration purposes. Please contact your partner manager if you're interested and provide the account ID (provided in the URL). Our partner account includes all of the enterprise level functionality and can be provided with a signed partnerships agreement.
```

> ## Integration Points

Reviewer: sugg: sentence casing vs title casing. another newish style within the industry that's been adopted

```suggestion
## Integration points
```

> - [Discovery API (formerly referred to as Metadata API)](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Discovery API (formerly referred to as Metadata API)](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api)
```

>     - **Overview**: This GraphQL API allows you to query the metadata that dbt Cloud generates every time you run a dbt Project. We have two schemas available (environment and job level). By default, we always recommend that you integrate with the environment level schema because it contains the latest state and historical run results of all the jobs run on the dbt Cloud project. The job level will only provide you the metadata of one job, giving you only a small snapshot of part of the project.

Reviewer: sugg: per style, em dashes are preferred to colons because it's easier to see it on the rendered page

```suggestion
    - **Overview** &mdash; This GraphQL API allows you to query the metadata that dbt Cloud generates every time you run a dbt project. We have two schemas available (environment and job level). By default, we always recommend that you integrate with the environment level schema because it contains the latest state and historical run results of all the jobs run on the dbt Cloud project. The job level will only provide you the metadata of one job, giving you only a small snapshot of part of the project.
```

> - [Administrative API (also referred to as the Admin API)](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/admin-cloud-api)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Administrative (Admin) API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/admin-cloud-api)
```

>     - **Overview:** This REST API allows you to orchestrate dbt Cloud jobs runs and help you administer a dbt Cloud account. For metadata retrieval, we recommend integrating with the Discovery API instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Overview** &mdash; This REST API allows you to orchestrate dbt Cloud jobs runs and help you administer a dbt Cloud account. For metadata retrieval, we recommend integrating with the Discovery API instead.
```

> - Webhooks

Reviewer: sugg: as a best practice, parallel construction on all items in the list. the idea is that it makes it easier for eyes to scan

```suggestion
- [Webhooks](/docs/deploy/webhooks)
```

>     - **Overview:** Outbound webhooks can send notifications about your dbt Cloud jobs to other systems. These webhooks allow you to get the latest information on your dbt jobs in real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Overview** &mdash; Outbound webhooks can send notifications about your dbt Cloud jobs to other systems. These webhooks allow you to get the latest information about your dbt jobs in real time.
```

>     - [Link to documentation](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/deploy/webhooks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Semantic Layers/Metrics

Reviewer: sugg: for parallel construction

```suggestion
- [Semantic Layers/Metrics](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview)
```

>     - **Overview: Our Semantic Layer is made up of two parts: metrics definitions and the ability to interactively query the dbt metrics. For more details, here is a [basic overview](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) and [our best practices](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/dbt-ecosystem/sl-partner-integration-guide).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Overview** &mdash;  Our Semantic Layer is made up of two parts: metrics definitions and the ability to interactively query the dbt metrics. For more details, here is a [basic overview](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) and [our best practices](/guides/dbt-ecosystem/sl-partner-integration-guide).
```

>     - Metrics definitions can be pulled from the Discovery API (linked above) or the Semantic Layer Driver/GraphQL API. The key difference is the Discovery API is not able to pull the semantic graph which provides the list of available dimensions that one can query per metric. That is only available via the SL Driver/APIs. The tradeoff is the SL Driver/APIs does not have access to the lineage of the entire dbt project (i.e how the dbt metrics dependencies on dbt models)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Metrics definitions can be pulled from the Discovery API (linked above) or the Semantic Layer Driver/GraphQL API. The key difference is that the Discovery API isn't able to pull the semantic graph, which provides the list of available dimensions that one can query per metric. That is only available with the SL Driver/APIs. The trade-off is that the SL Driver/APIs doesn't have access to the lineage of the entire dbt project (that is, how the dbt metrics dependencies on dbt models).
```

>     - [We have three available integration points for the Semantic Layer API.](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview)

Reviewer: sugg: to be a little more concise 

```suggestion
    - Three integration points are available for the Semantic Layer API.
```

> ## dbt Cloud Hosting and Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dbt Cloud hosting and authentication
```

> To use the dbt Cloud APIs, you will need access to the customer’s access urls. Depending on their dbt Cloud setup, they will have a different access url. To find out more, here is the [documentation](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/about-cloud/regions-ip-addresses) to understand all the possible configurations. My recommendation is to allow the customer to provide their own url to simplify support. 

Reviewer: sugg: since it's the actual page title, matched the capitalization

```suggestion
To use the dbt Cloud APIs, you'll need access to the customer’s access urls. Depending on their dbt Cloud setup, they'll have a different access URL. To find out more, refer to [Regions & IP addresses](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/regions-ip-addresses) to understand all the possible configurations. My recommendation is to allow the customer to provide their own URL to simplify support. 
```

> If the customer is on an Azure Single Tenant instance, they do not currently have access to the Discovery API or the Semantic Layer APIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the customer is on an Azure single tenant instance, they don't currently have access to the Discovery API or the Semantic Layer APIs. 
```

Reviewer: for emphasis, should this sentence be in a callout?

Author: No because I am kinda hiding this away. It's not a great thing to announce for customers to see this

> For authentication, we highly recommend that your integration uses account service tokens. You can read more about how to create a service token and what permission sets to provide it [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens). Please note depending on their plan type, they will have access to different permission sets. We **do not** recommend that users supply their user bearer tokens for authentication. This can cause issues if the user leaves the organization and provides you access to all the dbt Cloud accounts associated to the user rather than just the account (and related projects) that they want to integrate with. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For authentication, we highly recommend that your integration uses account service tokens. You can read more about [how to create a service token and what permission sets to provide it](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens). Please note that depending on their plan type, they'll have access to different permission sets. We _do not_ recommend that users supply their user bearer tokens for authentication. This can cause issues if the user leaves the organization and provides you access to all the dbt Cloud accounts associated to the user rather than just the account (and related projects) that they want to integrate with. 
```

> ## Potential Use Cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Potential use cases
```

- Event-based orchestration

>     - **Desired Action:** You wish to receive information that a scheduled dbt Cloud Job has been completed or kick off a dbt Cloud job. You can align your product schedule to the dbt Cloud run schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Desired action** &mdash; You want to receive information that a scheduled dbt Cloud job has been completed or has kicked off a dbt Cloud job. You can align your product schedule to the dbt Cloud run schedule.
```

>     - **Examples:** Kicking off a dbt Job after the ETL job of extracting and loading the data is completed. Or receiving a webhook after the job has been completed to kick off your reverse ETL job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Examples** &mdash; Kicking off a dbt job after the ETL job of extracting and loading the data is completed. Or receiving a webhook after the job has been completed to kick off your reverse ETL job.
```

>     - **Integration Points:** Webhooks and/or Admin API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Integration points** &mdash; Webhooks and/or Admin API
```

> - dbt Lineage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dbt lineage
```

>     - **Desired Action:** You wish to interpolate the dbt lineage metadata into your tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Desired action** &mdash; You want to interpolate the dbt lineage metadata into your tool.
```

>     - **Example: In your tool, you wish to pull in the dbt DAG into your lineage diagram. [This is what you could pull and how to do this.](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples#whats-the-full-data-lineage)**

Reviewer: sugg: fixed the broken anchor link. broken anchor links don't 404 they just take you to the top of page. there isn't a section called "What's the full data lineage" on the page. 

```suggestion
    - **Example** &mdash; In your tool, you want to pull in the dbt DAG into your lineage diagram. For details on what you could pull and how to do this, refer to [Use cases and examples for the Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples).
```

Reviewer: curious about the anchor link, was what you wrote a typo? did you mean to link to another section?

Author: No - I think what happened here is this link changed on me in the past

>     - **Integration Points:** Discovery API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Integration points** &mdash; Discovery API
```

> - dbt Environment/Job metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dbt environment/job metadata
```

>     - **Desired Action:** You wish to interpolate dbt Cloud job information into your tool, including the status of the jobs, the status of the tables executed in the run, what tests passed, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Desired action** &mdash; You want to interpolate the dbt Cloud job information into your tool, including the status of the jobs, the status of the tables executed in the run, what tests passed, etc.
```

>     - **Example:** In your Business Intelligence tool, stakeholders select from tables that a dbt model created. You show the last time the model passed its tests/last run to show that the tables are current and can be trusted. [This is what you could pull and how to do this.](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples#whats-the-latest-state-of-each-model)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Example** &mdash; In your Business Intelligence tool, stakeholders select from tables that a dbt model created. You show the last time the model passed its tests/last run to show that the tables are current and can be trusted. For details on what you could pull and how to do this, refer to [What's the latest state of each model](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples#whats-the-latest-state-of-each-model).
```

>     - **Integration Points:** Discovery API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Integration points** &mdash; Discovery API
```

> - dbt Model Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dbt model documentation
```

>     - **Desired Action:** You wish to interpolate dbt Project Information, including model descriptions, column descriptions, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Desired action** &mdash; You want to interpolate the dbt project Information, including model descriptions, column descriptions, etc.
```

>     - **Example:** You want to extract out the dbt model description so that you can display and help the stakeholder understand what they are selecting from. This way, the creators can easily pass on the information without updating another system. [This is what you could pull and how to do this.](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples#what-does-this-dataset-and-its-columns-mean)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Example** &mdash; You want to extract the dbt model description so you can display and help the stakeholder understand what they are selecting from. This way, the creators can easily pass on the information without updating another system. For details on what you could pull and how to do this, refer to [What does this dataset and its columns mean](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-use-cases-and-examples#what-does-this-dataset-and-its-columns-mean).
```

>     - **Integration Points:** Discovery API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Integration points** &mdash; Discovery API
```

> **dbt Core only users will have no access to the above integration points.** For dbt metadata, oftentimes our partners will create a dbt core integration by using the [dbt artifacts](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer/) files generated by each run and provided by the user. With our Discovery API, we are providing a dynamic way to get the latest up to date information, parsed out for you.

Reviewer: suggs:
- style guide nit on bolding text
- use dbt Core, the proper noun 
- "latest" or "most up to date" but not both due to redundancy 

```suggestion
dbt Core only users will have no access to the above integration points. For dbt metadata, oftentimes our partners will create a dbt Core integration by using the [dbt artifact](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer/) files generated by each run and provided by the user. With the Discovery API, we are providing a dynamic way to get the latest information parsed out for you.
```

Reviewer: per style guide, you can use italics for emphasis. not sure if a callout is needed here but that's another way to emphasize

> ## dbt Cloud Plans & Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dbt Cloud plans & permissions
```

[The dbt Cloud plan type](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing) will change what the user has access to. There are four different types of plans:

> - **Developer**: This is free and available to one user with a limited amount of successful models built. This plan cannot access the APIs, Webhooks, or Semantic Layer. Limited to 1 project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Developer** &mdash; This is free and available to one user with a limited amount of successful models built. This plan can't access the APIs, Webhooks, or Semantic Layer and is limited to just one project.
```

> - **Team:** This plan has access to the APIs, Webhooks, and Semantic Layer. You may have up to 8 users on the account and one dbt Cloud Project. This is limited to 15,000 successful models built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Team** &mdash; This plan provides access to the APIs, webhooks, and Semantic Layer. You can have up to eight users on the account and one dbt Cloud Project. This is limited to 15,000 successful models built.
```

> - **Enterprise** (Multi-tenant/Multi-cell): This plan has access to the APIs, Webhooks, and Semantic Layer. They may have more than one dbt Cloud Project based on how many dbt projects/domains they have using dbt. Majority of our enterprise customers are on multi-tenant dbt Cloud instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enterprise** (multi-tenant/multi-cell) &mdash; This plan provides access to the APIs, webhooks, and Semantic Layer. You can have more than one dbt Cloud project based on how many dbt projects/domains they have using dbt. The majority of our enterprise customers are on multi-tenant dbt Cloud instances.
```

> - **Enterprise** (Single-tenant): This plan may have access to the APIs, Webhooks, and Semantic Layer. If you are working with a specific customer, let us know, and we can confirm if their instance has access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enterprise** (single tenant): This plan might have access to the APIs, webhooks, and Semantic Layer. If you're working with a specific customer, let us know and we can confirm if their instance has access.
```

> ## Frequently Asked Questions

Reviewer: consider using "FAQs" (short form) vs spelling it out

Author: ```suggestion
## FAQs
```

> - What is a dbt Cloud Project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What is a dbt Cloud project?
```

>     - A dbt Cloud project is made up of two connections: one to the git repository and one to the data warehouse/platform. Most customers will have only one dbt Cloud Project in their account but there are enterprise clients who might have more depending on their use cases.The project also encapsulates two types of environments at minimal: a development environment and deployment environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A dbt Cloud project is made up of two connections: one to the Git repository and one to the data warehouse/platform. Most customers will have only one dbt Cloud project in their account but there are enterprise clients who might have more depending on their use cases. The project also encapsulates two types of environments at minimal: a development environment and deployment environment.
```

>     - Oftentimes folks refer to the [dbt Project](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/projects) as the code hosted in their git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Folks commonly refer to the [dbt project](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/projects) as the code hosted in their Git repository.
```

> - What is a dbt Cloud Environment?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What is a dbt Cloud environment?
```

>     - [For an overview, check out this documentation.](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/environments-in-dbt) At minimal an project will have one deployment type environment that they will be executing jobs on. The development environment powers the dbt Cloud IDE and Cloud CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For an overview, check out [About environments](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/environments-in-dbt). At a minimum, a project will have one deployment type environment that they will be executing jobs on. The development environment powers the dbt Cloud IDE and Cloud CLI.
```

- Can we write back to the dbt project?

>     - At this moment, we do not have a Write API. A dbt project is hosted in a git repository, so if you have a git provider integration, you can manually open up a Pull Request on the project to maintain the version control process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - At this moment, we don't have a Write API. A dbt project is hosted in a Git repository, so if you have a Git provider integration, you can manually open a pull request (PR) on the project to maintain the version control process.
```

- Can you provide column-level information in the lineage?
    - Column-level lineage is currently in beta release with more information to come.
- How do I get a Partner Account?

>     - Contact your Partner Manager with your account id (in your URL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Contact your Partner Manager with your account ID (in your URL).
```

> - Why should I not use the Admin API to pull out the dbt artifacts for metadata?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Why shouldn't I use the Admin API to pull out the dbt artifacts for metadata?
```

>     - We recommend not integrating with the Admin API to extract the dbt artifacts documentation. This is because the Discovery API provides more extensive information, a user-friendly structure and more reliable integration point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - We recommend not integrating with the Admin API to extract the dbt artifacts documentation. This is because the Discovery API provides more extensive information, a user-friendly structure, and a more reliable integration point.
```

> - How do I get access to the dbt Brand assets?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How do I get access to the dbt brand assets?
```

>     - Check out this [page](https://www.getdbt.com/brand-guidelines/). Please make sure you’re not using our old logo(hint: there should only be one hole in the logo). Please also note that the name dbt and the dbt logo are trademarked by dbt Labs, and that use is governed by our brand guidelines - which are fairly specific for commercial uses. If you have any questions about proper use of our marks, please ask for your partner manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check out our [Brand guidelines](https://www.getdbt.com/brand-guidelines/) page. Please make sure you’re not using our old logo (hint: there should only be one hole in the logo). Please also note that the name dbt and the dbt logo are trademarked by dbt Labs, and that use is governed by our brand guidelines, which are fairly specific for commercial uses. If you have any questions about proper use of our marks, please ask your partner manager.
```

tags: [dbt Cloud, Integrations, APIs]
hide_table_of_contents: false

date: 2023-12-20
is_featured: false
---
## Overview

Over the course of my three years running the Partner Engineering team at dbt Labs, the most common question I've been asked is, How do we integrate with dbt? Because those conversations often start out at the same place, I decided to create this guide so I’m no longer the blocker to fundamental information. This also allows us to skip the intro and get to the fun conversations so much faster, like what a joint solution for our customers would look like. 

This guide doesn't include how to integrate with dbt Core. If you’re interested in creating a dbt adapter, please check out the [adapter development guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/dbt-ecosystem/adapter-development/1-what-are-adapters) instead.

Instead, we're going to focus on integrating with dbt Cloud. Integrating with dbt Cloud is a key requirement to become a dbt Labs technology partner, opening the door to a variety of collaborative commercial opportunities. 

Here I'll cover how to get started, potential use cases you want to solve for, and points of integrations to do so.

## New to dbt Cloud?

> If you're new to dbt and dbt Cloud, we recommend you and your software developers try our [Getting Started Quickstarts](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides) after reading [What is dbt?](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction). The documentation will help you familiarize yourself with how our users interact with dbt. By going through this, you will also create a sample dbt project to test your integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're new to dbt and dbt Cloud, we recommend you and your software developers try our [Getting Started Quickstarts](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides) after reading [What is dbt](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction). The documentation will help you familiarize yourself with how our users interact with dbt. By going through this, you will also create a sample dbt project to test your integration.
```

Reviewer: removing one of the punctuation marks bc it looks awkward in rendered form
